wg-ai-conformance/README.md, before:

<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# AI Conformance Working Group

The goal of this group is to define a standardized set of capabilities,  APIs, and configurations that a Kubernetes cluster must offer to reliably and efficiently run AI/ML workloads.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the AI Conformance Working Group.

## Stakeholder SIGs
* [SIG Architecture](/sig-architecture)
* [SIG Testing](/sig-testing)

## Meetings
*Joining the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/wg-ai-conformance) for the group will typically add invites for the following meetings to your calendar.*
* Regular WG Meeting ([calendar](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=NWFpanZpOG0ycnVldDY5bWs0dDUwdmRyNTFfMjAyNTA5MDRUMTcwMDAwWiBjYWxlbmRhckBrdWJlcm5ldGVzLmlv)): [Thursdays at 10:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/95480364337) (weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=10%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qlW1LkibOoiMio-hbJucRjOYeKT8mNaQ4awwzf0bi8M/edit).

## Organizers

* Janet Kuo (**[@janetkuo](https://github.com/janetkuo)**), Google
* Mario Fahlandt (**[@mfahlandt](https://github.com/mfahlandt)**), Kubermatic GmbH
* Rita Zhang (**[@ritazh](https://github.com/ritazh)**), Microsoft
* Yuan Tang (**[@terrytangyuan](https://github.com/terrytangyuan)**), Red Hat

## Contact
- Slack: [#wg-ai-conformance](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/wg-ai-conformance)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/wg-ai-conformance)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/wg%2Fai-conformance)
- Steering Committee Liaison: Patrick Ohly (**[@pohly](https://github.com/pohly)**)
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->

Commit message:

Add links to AI conformance definition repos

wg-ai-conformance/README.md, after:

<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# AI Conformance Working Group

The goal of this group is to define a standardized set of capabilities,  APIs, and configurations that a Kubernetes cluster must offer to reliably and efficiently run AI/ML workloads.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the AI Conformance Working Group.

## Stakeholder SIGs
* [SIG Architecture](/sig-architecture)
* [SIG Testing](/sig-testing)

## Meetings
*Joining the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/wg-ai-conformance) for the group will typically add invites for the following meetings to your calendar.*
* Regular WG Meeting ([calendar](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=NWFpanZpOG0ycnVldDY5bWs0dDUwdmRyNTFfMjAyNTA5MDRUMTcwMDAwWiBjYWxlbmRhckBrdWJlcm5ldGVzLmlv)): [Thursdays at 10:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/95480364337) (weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=10%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qlW1LkibOoiMio-hbJucRjOYeKT8mNaQ4awwzf0bi8M/edit).

## Organizers

* Janet Kuo (**[@janetkuo](https://github.com/janetkuo)**), Google
* Mario Fahlandt (**[@mfahlandt](https://github.com/mfahlandt)**), Kubermatic GmbH
* Rita Zhang (**[@ritazh](https://github.com/ritazh)**), Microsoft
* Yuan Tang (**[@terrytangyuan](https://github.com/terrytangyuan)**), Red Hat

## Contact
- Slack: [#wg-ai-conformance](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/wg-ai-conformance)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/wg-ai-conformance)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/wg%2Fai-conformance)
- Steering Committee Liaison: Patrick Ohly (**[@pohly](https://github.com/pohly)**)
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

## AI Conformance Definition

The official AI conformance requirements and certification process are published in the [cncf/ai-conformance](https://github.com/cncf/ai-conformance) repository. Async discussions on defining these requirements are tracked in the [kubernetes-sigs/wg-ai-conformance](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-ai-conformance) repository.

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->
