wg-etcd-operator/annual-report-2025.md, before:

# 2025 Annual Report: WG etcd Operator

## Current initiatives and Project Health


1. What work did the WG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - artifacts
   - reports
   - white papers
   - work not tracked in KEPs
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?

## Operational

Operational tasks in [wg-governance.md]:

- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] WG leaders in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed
- [ ] Updates provided to sponsoring SIGs in 2025
      - [$sig-name](https://git.k8s.io/community/$sig-id/)
        - links to email, meeting notes, slides, or recordings, etc
      - [$sig-name](https://git.k8s.io/community/$sig-id/)
        - links to email, meeting notes, slides, or recordings, etc
      -

[wg-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/wg-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/wg-etcd-operator/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml

Commit message:

WG etcd-operator annual report of 2025
Signed-off-by: Benjamin Wang <benjamin.ahrtr@gmail.com>

wg-etcd-operator/annual-report-2025.md, after:

# 2025 Annual Report: WG etcd Operator

## Current initiatives and Project Health


1. What work did the WG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - artifacts
   - reports
   - white papers
   - work not tracked in KEPs
-->

- Released etcd-operator [v0.1.0](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd-operator/releases/tag/v0.1.0)

- Started work on [version v0.2.0](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd-operator/milestone/2), about 80% completed

- KubeCon Updates
    - KubeCon EU 2025: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_xoDbpm-Qks
    - KubeCon NA 2025: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tF7UOwhgetU

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?

Not yet.

## Operational

Operational tasks in [wg-governance.md]:

- [X] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [X] WG leaders in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [X] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed
- [X] Updates provided to sponsoring SIGs in 2025
      - [sig-etcd](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-etcd/)
      - [sig-clusterlifecycle](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cluster-lifecycle/)

[wg-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/wg-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/wg-etcd-operator/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
