wg-etcd-operator/annual-report-2024.md, before:

# 2024 Annual Report: WG etcd Operator

## Current initiatives and Project Health


1. What work did the WG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - artifacts
   - reports
   - white papers
   - work not tracked in KEPs
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?

## Operational

Operational tasks in [wg-governance.md]:

- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] WG leaders in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2024 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed
- [ ] Updates provided to sponsoring SIGs in 2024
      - [$sig-name](https://git.k8s.io/community/$sig-id/)
        - links to email, meeting notes, slides, or recordings, etc
      - [$sig-name](https://git.k8s.io/community/$sig-id/)
        - links to email, meeting notes, slides, or recordings, etc
      -

[wg-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/wg-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/wg-etcd-operator/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml

Commit message:

Initial WIP of wg-etcd annual report.
Signed-off-by: Josh Berkus <josh@agliodbs.com>

wg-etcd-operator/annual-report-2024.md, after:

# 2024 Annual Report: WG etcd Operator

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the WG do this year that should be highlighted?

* We launched the WG, and [recruited contributors](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd-operator/graphs/contributors) from multiple prior operators
* Completed [review of leading existing operators](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd-operator/blob/main/docs/wg/evaluation/evaluation.pdf)
* [Surveyed potential users](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd-operator/blob/main/docs/wg/survey/2024-operator-survey.md) and determined [operator development roadmap](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd-operator/blob/main/docs/roadmap.md)
* Created initial [operator workflow]()
* Started work on [version 0.1](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd-operator/milestone/1), about 30% completed

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?

Not yet.

## Operational

Operational tasks in [wg-governance.md]:

- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [X] WG leaders in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [X] Meeting notes and recordings for 2024 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed
- [ ] Updates provided to sponsoring SIGs in 2024
      - [$sig-name](https://git.k8s.io/community/$sig-id/)
        - links to email, meeting notes, slides, or recordings, etc
      - [$sig-name](https://git.k8s.io/community/$sig-id/)
        - links to email, meeting notes, slides, or recordings, etc
      -

[wg-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/wg-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/wg-etcd-operator/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
