sig-network/README.md, before:

<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# Network Special Interest Group

Covers networking in Kubernetes.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the Network Special Interest Group.

## Meetings
*Joining the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-network) for the group will typically add invites for the following meetings to your calendar.*
* Gateway API Meeting (Americas): [Mondays at 15:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/441530404) (weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=15%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eg-YjOHaQ7UD28htdNxBR3zufebozXKyI28cl2E11tU/edit).
* Gateway API Meeting (Europe): [Tuesday (starting September 10th 2024)s at 08:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/441530404) (bi-weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=08%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eg-YjOHaQ7UD28htdNxBR3zufebozXKyI28cl2E11tU/edit).
* Ingate Meeting: [Fridays at 06:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/94625479998) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=06%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KqMxFbxz4QO5bYCFfihyZwPVZTtTtzcQs3Nt2-JQaAA/edit).
* Network Policy API Meeting: [Tuesdays at 9:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/96264742248) (bi-weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=9%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AtWQy2fNa4qXRag9cCp5_HsefD7bxKe3ea2RPn8jnSs).
* SIG Network InGate Meeting: [Fridays at 6:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/94625479998) (monthly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=6%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KqMxFbxz4QO5bYCFfihyZwPVZTtTtzcQs3Nt2-JQaAA/edit).
* SIG Network Ingress NGINX Meeting: [Thursdays at 8:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/98377891310) (monthly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=8%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DKlpcV6DAW0DsBrzh-OLkZvJQmABCVfRIRWBWjc4zOs/edit).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VkbEihIb7tA&list=PL69nYSiGNLP2Rqe8T4mDnyHqDZ4VYPY1X).
* SIG Network Meeting: [Thursdays at 09:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/361123509) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=09%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_w77-zG_Xj0zYvEMfQZTQ-wPP4kXkpGD8smVtW_qqWM/edit).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phCA5-vWkVM&list=PL69nYSiGNLP2E8vmnqo5MwPOY25sDWIxb).
* SIG Network Multi-Network Meeting: [Wednesdays at 08:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/95680858961?pwd=M1c2TTdMZHpMUUtIYXRpbjRobkNJZz09) (weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=08%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pe_0aOsI35BEsQJ-FhFH9Z_pWQcU2uqwAnOx2NIx6OY/edit).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phCA5-vWkVM&list=PL69nYSiGNLP2E8vmnqo5MwPOY25sDWIxb).

## Leadership

### Chairs
The Chairs of the SIG run operations and processes governing the SIG.

* Michael Zappa (**[@mikezappa87](https://github.com/mikezappa87)**), Microsoft
* Shane Utt (**[@shaneutt](https://github.com/shaneutt)**), Red Hat
* Tim Hockin (**[@thockin](https://github.com/thockin)**), Google

### Technical Leads
The Technical Leads of the SIG establish new subprojects, decommission existing
subprojects, and resolve cross-subproject technical issues and decisions.

* Antonio Ojea (**[@aojea](https://github.com/aojea)**), Google
* Dan Winship (**[@danwinship](https://github.com/danwinship)**), Red Hat
* Tim Hockin (**[@thockin](https://github.com/thockin)**), Google

## Emeritus Leads

* Casey Davenport (**[@caseydavenport](https://github.com/caseydavenport)**)
* Dan Williams (**[@dcbw](https://github.com/dcbw)**)

## Contact
- Slack: [#sig-network](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-network)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-network)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/sig%2Fnetwork)
- GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-api-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-api-reviews) - API Changes and Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-bugs](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-bugs) - Bug Triage and Troubleshooting
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-feature-requests](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-feature-requests) - Feature Requests
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-misc](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-misc) - General Discussion
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-pr-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-pr-reviews) - PR Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-proposals](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-proposals) - Design Proposals
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-test-failures](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-test-failures) - Test Failures and Triage
- Steering Committee Liaison: Maciej Szulik (**[@soltysh](https://github.com/soltysh)**)

## Working Groups

The following [working groups][working-group-definition] are sponsored by sig-network:
* [WG AI Gateway](/wg-ai-gateway)
* [WG Device Management](/wg-device-management)
* [WG Node Lifecycle](/wg-node-lifecycle)
* [WG Serving](/wg-serving)
* [WG Structured Logging](/wg-structured-logging)


## Subprojects

The following [subprojects][subproject-definition] are owned by sig-network:
### cluster-proportional-autoscaler
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/cluster-proportional-autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-proportional-autoscaler/blob/master/OWNERS)
### cluster-proportional-vertical-autoscaler
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/cluster-proportional-vertical-autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-proportional-vertical-autoscaler/blob/master/OWNERS)
### external-dns
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/external-dns](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/blob/master/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#external-dns](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/external-dns)
### gateway-api
- **Leads:**
  - Mattia Lavacca (**[@mlavacca](https://github.com/mlavacca)**), Kong
  - Rob Scott (**[@robscott](https://github.com/robscott)**), Google
  - Shane Utt (**[@shaneutt](https://github.com/shaneutt)**), Red Hat
  - Nick Young (**[@youngnick](https://github.com/youngnick)**), Isovalent
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/gwctl](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gwctl/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ingate/heads/main](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingate/blob/refs/heads/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/pkg/controller/endpoint](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/endpoint/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/pkg/proxy](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/proxy/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/cloud-provider/controllers/service](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/cloud-provider/controllers/service/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#sig-network-gateway-api](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-network-gateway-api)
### gateway-api-inference-extension
Gateway API Inference Extension
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api-inference-extension](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api-inference-extension/blob/main/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#gateway-api-inference-extension](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/gateway-api-inference-extension)
### ingate
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ingate/heads/main](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingate/blob/refs/heads/main/OWNERS)
### ingress
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ingress-controller-conformance](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress-controller-conformance/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/ingress-gce](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-gce/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/ingress-nginx](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/OWNERS)
### iptables-wrappers
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/iptables-wrappers](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/iptables-wrappers/blob/master/OWNERS)
### knftables
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/knftables](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/knftables/blob/master/OWNERS)
### kube-dns
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes/dns](https://github.com/kubernetes/dns/blob/master/OWNERS)
### multi-network
- **Leads:**
  - Maciej Skrocki (**[@mskrocki](https://github.com/mskrocki)**), Google
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/multi-network-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/multi-network-api/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/multi-network](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/multi-network/blob/main/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#sig-network-multi-network](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-network-multi-network)
### network-policy
- **Leads:**
  - Andrew Stoycos (**[@astoycos](https://github.com/astoycos)**)
  - Dan Winship (**[@danwinship](https://github.com/danwinship)**), Red Hat
  - Yang Ding (**[@dyanngg](https://github.com/dyanngg)**), VMWare
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/kube-network-policies](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-network-policies/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-finalizer](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-finalizer/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/api/networking](https://github.com/kubernetes/api/blob/master/networking/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#sig-network-policy-api](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-network-policy-api)
### node-ipam-controller
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/node-ipam-controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/node-ipam-controller/blob/main/OWNERS)
### pod-networking
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/cni-dra-driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cni-dra-driver/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ip-masq-agent](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ip-masq-agent/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/nat64](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/nat64/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/pkg/kubelet/network](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/kubelet/network/OWNERS)

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

### Subproject Leads

SIG network provides some additional responsibilities for subproject leads beyond what is covered in the [standard subproject definition][subprojects].
Most of these additional responsibilities relate to communication about their projects within SIG Network, and to the greater community:

- **Transparent Project Planning, Maintenance and Communication:**
  - Subproject Leads must provide transparent view into their historical and future project plans (eg; using GitHub project boards, KEPs, or custom enhancement proposals (see [GEPs]/[NPEPs])).
  - Subproject leads must create, maintain and be present in a public [Kubernetes Slack] channel with the easy-to-find naming `#sig-network-<subproject>` for their sub-project.
  - Subproject leads should create and maintain a regular public [Zoom] sync on the [SIG Network Calendar].
  - Subproject leads must keep the project in good health through regular issue triaging, PR reviews, CI health monitoring and checking testgrids (delegating this to other members in the community is good!)
  - Projects that own CRDs in the `k8s.io` group must go through the [API review process](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md) and Subproject leads are expected to make sure this well defined processes across Kubernetes is followed.

- **Regular Project Updates**
  - Subproject leads must report on project's status, significant releases/events, interesting developments to the wider SIG-Network community via the [SIG Network Mailing List] on a quarterly basis (or as needed).
  - Subproject leads should report on project status in the general SIG Network community meetings (in addition to mailing list updates).

[subprojects]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[GEPs]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/blob/main/geps/overview.md
[NPEPs]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api/blob/main/npeps
[Kubernetes Slack]: https://kubernetes.slack.com
[Zoom]: https://zoom.us
[SIG Network Calendar]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network#meetings
[SIG Network Mailing List]: https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-sig-network

## Areas of Responsibility

SIG Network is responsible for the following Kubernetes subsystems:

- DNS
- Ingress
- Network plugins / CNI
- Network Policy
- Services / kube-proxy

SIG Network is responsible for a number of issues and PRs. A summary can be found through GitHub search:

* [SIG Network PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Asig%2Fnetwork)
* [SIG Network Issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Asig%2Fnetwork)

## Documents

* [2017 Planning](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fBxC36UCBnqY_w3m3TjdnXFsIT--GS6HmKb5o0nhkTk/edit#)

## Archive

The following are larger efforts which are now archived and historical. They are
no longer active, but are kept in an archived state for posterity and maybe be
useful as reference materials.

### KPNG

["Kube Proxy Next Generation (KPNG)"][kpng] was an effort to evaluate the
potential for a new [kube-proxy] with an emphasis on modularity and
adaptability. Through the project we explored alternatives to our historical
kube-proxy architecture and gained a lot of community members through interest
in it. The project was very large in scope, and was archived in 2024 after
agreement that the community was no longer able to continue focus on it, but it
remains important prior art for any future attempts to revise kube-proxy.

[kpng]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kpng
[kube-proxy]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-proxy/

### Blixt

[Blixt] was a Kubernetes L4 load-balancer that started in the early 2020's at a
time when eBPF technology was a huge buzz for Kubernetes, and members of the
Kubernetes SIG Network community wanted to experiment with and explore the
technology on K8s. The project operated primarily as an experimental sandbox.

We had a lot of fun working on this while it was active. It was great to create
the first official Kubernetes project in [Rust], and experimenting with eBPF in
its nascence was exciting. All things must come to an end however. Thank you to
all contributors!

[Blixt]:https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/blixt
[Rust]:https://github.com/rust-lang/

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->

Commit message:

sig-network: document new wg-ai-gateway repo owners

sig-network/README.md, after:

<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# Network Special Interest Group

Covers networking in Kubernetes.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the Network Special Interest Group.

## Meetings
*Joining the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-network) for the group will typically add invites for the following meetings to your calendar.*
* Gateway API Meeting (Americas): [Mondays at 15:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/441530404) (weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=15%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eg-YjOHaQ7UD28htdNxBR3zufebozXKyI28cl2E11tU/edit).
* Gateway API Meeting (Europe): [Tuesday (starting September 10th 2024)s at 08:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/441530404) (bi-weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=08%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eg-YjOHaQ7UD28htdNxBR3zufebozXKyI28cl2E11tU/edit).
* Ingate Meeting: [Fridays at 06:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/94625479998) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=06%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KqMxFbxz4QO5bYCFfihyZwPVZTtTtzcQs3Nt2-JQaAA/edit).
* Network Policy API Meeting: [Tuesdays at 9:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/96264742248) (bi-weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=9%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AtWQy2fNa4qXRag9cCp5_HsefD7bxKe3ea2RPn8jnSs).
* SIG Network InGate Meeting: [Fridays at 6:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/94625479998) (monthly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=6%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KqMxFbxz4QO5bYCFfihyZwPVZTtTtzcQs3Nt2-JQaAA/edit).
* SIG Network Ingress NGINX Meeting: [Thursdays at 8:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/98377891310) (monthly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=8%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DKlpcV6DAW0DsBrzh-OLkZvJQmABCVfRIRWBWjc4zOs/edit).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VkbEihIb7tA&list=PL69nYSiGNLP2Rqe8T4mDnyHqDZ4VYPY1X).
* SIG Network Meeting: [Thursdays at 09:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/361123509) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=09%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_w77-zG_Xj0zYvEMfQZTQ-wPP4kXkpGD8smVtW_qqWM/edit).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phCA5-vWkVM&list=PL69nYSiGNLP2E8vmnqo5MwPOY25sDWIxb).
* SIG Network Multi-Network Meeting: [Wednesdays at 08:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/95680858961?pwd=M1c2TTdMZHpMUUtIYXRpbjRobkNJZz09) (weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=08%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pe_0aOsI35BEsQJ-FhFH9Z_pWQcU2uqwAnOx2NIx6OY/edit).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phCA5-vWkVM&list=PL69nYSiGNLP2E8vmnqo5MwPOY25sDWIxb).

## Leadership

### Chairs
The Chairs of the SIG run operations and processes governing the SIG.

* Michael Zappa (**[@mikezappa87](https://github.com/mikezappa87)**), Microsoft
* Shane Utt (**[@shaneutt](https://github.com/shaneutt)**), Red Hat
* Tim Hockin (**[@thockin](https://github.com/thockin)**), Google

### Technical Leads
The Technical Leads of the SIG establish new subprojects, decommission existing
subprojects, and resolve cross-subproject technical issues and decisions.

* Antonio Ojea (**[@aojea](https://github.com/aojea)**), Google
* Dan Winship (**[@danwinship](https://github.com/danwinship)**), Red Hat
* Tim Hockin (**[@thockin](https://github.com/thockin)**), Google

## Emeritus Leads

* Casey Davenport (**[@caseydavenport](https://github.com/caseydavenport)**)
* Dan Williams (**[@dcbw](https://github.com/dcbw)**)

## Contact
- Slack: [#sig-network](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-network)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-network)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/sig%2Fnetwork)
- GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-api-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-api-reviews) - API Changes and Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-bugs](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-bugs) - Bug Triage and Troubleshooting
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-feature-requests](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-feature-requests) - Feature Requests
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-misc](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-misc) - General Discussion
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-pr-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-pr-reviews) - PR Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-proposals](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-proposals) - Design Proposals
    - [@kubernetes/sig-network-test-failures](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-network-test-failures) - Test Failures and Triage
- Steering Committee Liaison: Maciej Szulik (**[@soltysh](https://github.com/soltysh)**)

## Working Groups

The following [working groups][working-group-definition] are sponsored by sig-network:
* [WG AI Gateway](/wg-ai-gateway)
* [WG Device Management](/wg-device-management)
* [WG Node Lifecycle](/wg-node-lifecycle)
* [WG Serving](/wg-serving)
* [WG Structured Logging](/wg-structured-logging)


## Subprojects

The following [subprojects][subproject-definition] are owned by sig-network:
### cluster-proportional-autoscaler
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/cluster-proportional-autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-proportional-autoscaler/blob/master/OWNERS)
### cluster-proportional-vertical-autoscaler
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/cluster-proportional-vertical-autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-proportional-vertical-autoscaler/blob/master/OWNERS)
### external-dns
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/external-dns](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/blob/master/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#external-dns](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/external-dns)
### gateway-api
- **Leads:**
  - Mattia Lavacca (**[@mlavacca](https://github.com/mlavacca)**), Kong
  - Rob Scott (**[@robscott](https://github.com/robscott)**), Google
  - Shane Utt (**[@shaneutt](https://github.com/shaneutt)**), Red Hat
  - Nick Young (**[@youngnick](https://github.com/youngnick)**), Isovalent
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/gwctl](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gwctl/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ingate/heads/main](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingate/blob/refs/heads/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/pkg/controller/endpoint](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/endpoint/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/pkg/proxy](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/proxy/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/cloud-provider/controllers/service](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/cloud-provider/controllers/service/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#sig-network-gateway-api](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-network-gateway-api)
### gateway-api-inference-extension
Gateway API Inference Extension
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api-inference-extension](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api-inference-extension/blob/main/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#gateway-api-inference-extension](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/gateway-api-inference-extension)
### ingate
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ingate/heads/main](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingate/blob/refs/heads/main/OWNERS)
### ingress
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ingress-controller-conformance](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress-controller-conformance/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/ingress-gce](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-gce/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/ingress-nginx](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/OWNERS)
### iptables-wrappers
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/iptables-wrappers](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/iptables-wrappers/blob/master/OWNERS)
### knftables
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/knftables](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/knftables/blob/master/OWNERS)
### kube-dns
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes/dns](https://github.com/kubernetes/dns/blob/master/OWNERS)
### multi-network
- **Leads:**
  - Maciej Skrocki (**[@mskrocki](https://github.com/mskrocki)**), Google
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/multi-network-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/multi-network-api/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/multi-network](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/multi-network/blob/main/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#sig-network-multi-network](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-network-multi-network)
### network-policy
- **Leads:**
  - Andrew Stoycos (**[@astoycos](https://github.com/astoycos)**)
  - Dan Winship (**[@danwinship](https://github.com/danwinship)**), Red Hat
  - Yang Ding (**[@dyanngg](https://github.com/dyanngg)**), VMWare
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/kube-network-policies](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-network-policies/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-finalizer](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-finalizer/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/api/networking](https://github.com/kubernetes/api/blob/master/networking/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#sig-network-policy-api](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-network-policy-api)
### node-ipam-controller
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/node-ipam-controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/node-ipam-controller/blob/main/OWNERS)
### pod-networking
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/cni-dra-driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cni-dra-driver/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/ip-masq-agent](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ip-masq-agent/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes-sigs/nat64](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/nat64/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/pkg/kubelet/network](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/kubelet/network/OWNERS)
### wg-ai-gateway
Proposals and discussions for the AI Gateway Working Group
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/wg-ai-gateway](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-ai-gateway/blob/main/OWNERS)

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

### Subproject Leads

SIG network provides some additional responsibilities for subproject leads beyond what is covered in the [standard subproject definition][subprojects].
Most of these additional responsibilities relate to communication about their projects within SIG Network, and to the greater community:

- **Transparent Project Planning, Maintenance and Communication:**
  - Subproject Leads must provide transparent view into their historical and future project plans (eg; using GitHub project boards, KEPs, or custom enhancement proposals (see [GEPs]/[NPEPs])).
  - Subproject leads must create, maintain and be present in a public [Kubernetes Slack] channel with the easy-to-find naming `#sig-network-<subproject>` for their sub-project.
  - Subproject leads should create and maintain a regular public [Zoom] sync on the [SIG Network Calendar].
  - Subproject leads must keep the project in good health through regular issue triaging, PR reviews, CI health monitoring and checking testgrids (delegating this to other members in the community is good!)
  - Projects that own CRDs in the `k8s.io` group must go through the [API review process](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md) and Subproject leads are expected to make sure this well defined processes across Kubernetes is followed.

- **Regular Project Updates**
  - Subproject leads must report on project's status, significant releases/events, interesting developments to the wider SIG-Network community via the [SIG Network Mailing List] on a quarterly basis (or as needed).
  - Subproject leads should report on project status in the general SIG Network community meetings (in addition to mailing list updates).

[subprojects]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[GEPs]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/blob/main/geps/overview.md
[NPEPs]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api/blob/main/npeps
[Kubernetes Slack]: https://kubernetes.slack.com
[Zoom]: https://zoom.us
[SIG Network Calendar]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network#meetings
[SIG Network Mailing List]: https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-sig-network

## Areas of Responsibility

SIG Network is responsible for the following Kubernetes subsystems:

- DNS
- Ingress
- Network plugins / CNI
- Network Policy
- Services / kube-proxy

SIG Network is responsible for a number of issues and PRs. A summary can be found through GitHub search:

* [SIG Network PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Asig%2Fnetwork)
* [SIG Network Issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Asig%2Fnetwork)

## Documents

* [2017 Planning](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fBxC36UCBnqY_w3m3TjdnXFsIT--GS6HmKb5o0nhkTk/edit#)

## Archive

The following are larger efforts which are now archived and historical. They are
no longer active, but are kept in an archived state for posterity and maybe be
useful as reference materials.

### KPNG

["Kube Proxy Next Generation (KPNG)"][kpng] was an effort to evaluate the
potential for a new [kube-proxy] with an emphasis on modularity and
adaptability. Through the project we explored alternatives to our historical
kube-proxy architecture and gained a lot of community members through interest
in it. The project was very large in scope, and was archived in 2024 after
agreement that the community was no longer able to continue focus on it, but it
remains important prior art for any future attempts to revise kube-proxy.

[kpng]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kpng
[kube-proxy]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-proxy/

### Blixt

[Blixt] was a Kubernetes L4 load-balancer that started in the early 2020's at a
time when eBPF technology was a huge buzz for Kubernetes, and members of the
Kubernetes SIG Network community wanted to experiment with and explore the
technology on K8s. The project operated primarily as an experimental sandbox.

We had a lot of fun working on this while it was active. It was great to create
the first official Kubernetes project in [Rust], and experimenting with eBPF in
its nascence was exciting. All things must come to an end however. Thank you to
all contributors!

[Blixt]:https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/blixt
[Rust]:https://github.com/rust-lang/

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->
