sig-multicluster/README.md, before:

<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# Multicluster Special Interest Group

A Special Interest Group focused on solving common challenges related to the management of multiple Kubernetes clusters, and applications that exist therein. The SIG will be responsible for designing, discussing, implementing and maintaining API’s, tools and documentation related to multi-cluster administration and application management. This includes not only active automated approaches such as Cluster Federation, but also those that employ batch workflow-style continuous deployment systems like Spinnaker and others.  Standalone building blocks for these and other similar systems (for example a cluster registry), and proposed changes to kubernetes core where appropriate will also be in scope.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the Multicluster Special Interest Group.

## Meetings
*Joining the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-multicluster) for the group will typically add invites for the following meetings to your calendar.*
* APAC-Friendly SIG Meeting: [Thursdays at 6:30 UTC](https://zoom.us/my/k8s.mc) (bi-weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=6%3A30&tz=UTC).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://tinyurl.com/sig-multicluster-notes).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP0HqgyqTby6HlDEz7i1mb0-).
* Regular SIG Meeting: [Tuesdays at 9:30 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/my/k8s.mc) (weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=9%3A30&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://tinyurl.com/sig-multicluster-notes).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP0HqgyqTby6HlDEz7i1mb0-).

## Leadership

### Chairs
The Chairs of the SIG run operations and processes governing the SIG.

* Jeremy Olmsted-Thompson (**[@jeremyot](https://github.com/jeremyot)**), Google
* Stephen Kitt (**[@skitt](https://github.com/skitt)**), Red Hat

## Emeritus Leads

* Paul Morie (**[@pmorie](https://github.com/pmorie)**)
* Quinton Hoole (**[@quinton-hoole](https://github.com/quinton-hoole)**)

## Contact
- Slack: [#sig-multicluster](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-multicluster)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-multicluster)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/sig%2Fmulticluster)
- GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-api-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-api-reviews) - API Changes and Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-bugs](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-bugs) - Bug Triage and Troubleshooting
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-feature-requests](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-feature-requests) - Feature Requests
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-misc](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-misc) - General Discussion
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-pr-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-pr-reviews) - PR Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-proposals](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-proposals) - Design Proposals
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-test-failures](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-test-failures) - Test Failures and Triage
- Steering Committee Liaison: Antonio Ojea (**[@aojea](https://github.com/aojea)**)

## Subprojects

The following [subprojects][subproject-definition] are owned by sig-multicluster:
### about-api
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/about-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/about-api/blob/master/OWNERS)
### cluster-inventory-api
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/blob/main/OWNERS)
### mcs-api
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/mcs-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/mcs-api/blob/master/OWNERS)
### multicluster-runtime
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/multicluster-runtime](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/multicluster-runtime/blob/main/OWNERS)
### sig-multicluster-site
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/sig-multicluster-site](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/sig-multicluster-site/blob/main/OWNERS)
### work-api
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/work-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/work-api/blob/master/OWNERS)

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->

Commit message:

Add an optional leads mailing list address
This was inspired by a SIG-Multicluster discussion; there are leads
mailing lists that can be used to contact all the leads of a given
SIG, but they aren't advertised. This adds a field, a template entry,
and the information for SIG-MC.

Since the mailing list is only useful as an email address, the entry
is supposed to be an email address (or slight anti-spam variant
thereof), rather than the web link commonly used for open mailing
lists.

Signed-off-by: Stephen Kitt <skitt@redhat.com>

sig-multicluster/README.md, after:

<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# Multicluster Special Interest Group

A Special Interest Group focused on solving common challenges related to the management of multiple Kubernetes clusters, and applications that exist therein. The SIG will be responsible for designing, discussing, implementing and maintaining API’s, tools and documentation related to multi-cluster administration and application management. This includes not only active automated approaches such as Cluster Federation, but also those that employ batch workflow-style continuous deployment systems like Spinnaker and others.  Standalone building blocks for these and other similar systems (for example a cluster registry), and proposed changes to kubernetes core where appropriate will also be in scope.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the Multicluster Special Interest Group.

## Meetings
*Joining the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-multicluster) for the group will typically add invites for the following meetings to your calendar.*
* APAC-Friendly SIG Meeting: [Thursdays at 6:30 UTC](https://zoom.us/my/k8s.mc) (bi-weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=6%3A30&tz=UTC).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://tinyurl.com/sig-multicluster-notes).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP0HqgyqTby6HlDEz7i1mb0-).
* Regular SIG Meeting: [Tuesdays at 9:30 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/my/k8s.mc) (weekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=9%3A30&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://tinyurl.com/sig-multicluster-notes).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP0HqgyqTby6HlDEz7i1mb0-).

## Leadership
To contact all the leads, email `kubernetes-sig-multicluster-leads at googlegroups.com`.

### Chairs
The Chairs of the SIG run operations and processes governing the SIG.

* Jeremy Olmsted-Thompson (**[@jeremyot](https://github.com/jeremyot)**), Google
* Stephen Kitt (**[@skitt](https://github.com/skitt)**), Red Hat

## Emeritus Leads

* Paul Morie (**[@pmorie](https://github.com/pmorie)**)
* Quinton Hoole (**[@quinton-hoole](https://github.com/quinton-hoole)**)

## Contact
- Slack: [#sig-multicluster](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-multicluster)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-multicluster)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/sig%2Fmulticluster)
- GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-api-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-api-reviews) - API Changes and Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-bugs](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-bugs) - Bug Triage and Troubleshooting
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-feature-requests](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-feature-requests) - Feature Requests
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-misc](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-misc) - General Discussion
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-pr-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-pr-reviews) - PR Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-proposals](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-proposals) - Design Proposals
    - [@kubernetes/sig-multicluster-test-failures](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-multicluster-test-failures) - Test Failures and Triage
- Steering Committee Liaison: Antonio Ojea (**[@aojea](https://github.com/aojea)**)

## Subprojects

The following [subprojects][subproject-definition] are owned by sig-multicluster:
### about-api
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/about-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/about-api/blob/master/OWNERS)
### cluster-inventory-api
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/blob/main/OWNERS)
### mcs-api
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/mcs-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/mcs-api/blob/master/OWNERS)
### multicluster-runtime
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/multicluster-runtime](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/multicluster-runtime/blob/main/OWNERS)
### sig-multicluster-site
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/sig-multicluster-site](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/sig-multicluster-site/blob/main/OWNERS)
### work-api
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/work-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/work-api/blob/master/OWNERS)

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->
