sig-k8s-infra/annual-report-2025.md, before:

# 2025 Annual Report: SIG K8s Infra

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - Major KEP advancement
   - Important initiatives that aren't tracked via KEPs
   - Paying down significant tech debt
   - Governance and leadership changes
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?


3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2025 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?

<!--
  Examples include links to email, slides, or recordings.
-->

4. KEP work in 2025 (v1.33, v1.34, v1.35):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

<!-- 

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-k8s-infra#subprojects)


**Continuing:**
  - community-images
  - k8s-infra-dns
  - k8s-infra-groups
  - k8s.io
  - porche
  - registry.k8s.io

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-k8s-infra#working-groups)

**Continuing:**
 - LTS

## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-k8s-infra/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-k8s-infra/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md

Commit message:

Update SIG K8s Infra 2025 annual report

sig-k8s-infra/annual-report-2025.md, after:

# 2025 Annual Report: SIG K8s Infra

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?
- Changes to leadership
  - [@hakman](https://github.com/hakman) brought on as new Co-Chair
  - [@GenPage](https://github.com/genpage) brought on as new Co-Chair
  - [@BenTheElder](https://github.com/bentheelder) stepped down from Co-Chair and Tech Lead, and moved to emeritus
  - [@dims](https://github.com/dims) stepped down from Co-Chair, and moved to emeritus

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - Major KEP advancement
   - Important initiatives that aren't tracked via KEPs
   - Paying down significant tech debt
   - Governance and leadership changes
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?


3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2025 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?
- **[Kubernetes Infra SIG: Intro and Updates](https://kccncna2025.sched.com/event/27Nmn/kubernetes-infra-sig-intro-and-updates-mahamed-ali-arab-center-for-research-policy-studies)**
  - **Speaker:** Mahamed Ali (SIG K8s-Infra Tech Lead)
  - **Description:** A deep dive into the projects SIG K8s-Infra is currently working on, existing collaborations, and updates on the state of the SIG.

4. KEP work in 2025 (v1.33, v1.34, v1.35):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

<!-- 

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-k8s-infra#subprojects)


**Continuing:**
  - community-images
  - k8s-infra-dns
  - k8s-infra-groups
  - k8s.io
  - porche
  - registry.k8s.io

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-k8s-infra#working-groups)

**Continuing:**
 - LTS

## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [x] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [x] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-k8s-infra/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-k8s-infra/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md
