mentoring/new-contributor-orientation/new-contributor-resources.md, before:

# Getting Started with Kubernetes Development

## Join the Community

- Join the Kubernetes Developer Google Group (k-dev): [https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/dev](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/dev)
- Check out [kubernetes/community](https://github.com/kubernetes/community) for an overview of our community.
- Come join us in the [Kubernetes Slack](https://slack.k8s.io):
  - Join the #kubernetes-new-contributors channel
  - Join the channels of 1 or more SIGs you're interested in
- Participate in the [New Contributor Orientation](./README.md) to get an introduction to Kubernetes development and the community.

## Getting Familiar with the Process

1. Follow the [Contributor Guide](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/) to get familiar with various contributor tools and processes.
2. Read [The First Contribution Guide](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/first-contribution/) for a walkthrough of your first Pull Request (PR) process.

## Additional Resources

- Explore the comprehensive Resources List at [https://bit.ly/kubernetes-resources](https://bit.ly/kubernetes-resources)

Commit message:

docs(mentoring): optimize hugo front matter and header hierarchy for NCO docs
- Apply title and description improvements for SEO.
- Add weights for consistent sidebar ordering.
- Fix header hierarchy (H1 -> H2) for correct Hugo rendering.
- Remove "Monthly" references for consistency.
- Add link to previous sessions playlist.
- Include new-contributor-resources.md in orientation documentation.

mentoring/new-contributor-orientation/new-contributor-resources.md, after:

---
title: "New Contributor Resources"
weight: 30
description: "A collection of essential resources and links for new Kubernetes contributors."
---

## Resources for Success

### Join the Community

- Join the Kubernetes Developer Google Group (k-dev): [https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/dev](https://groups.google.com/a/kubernetes.io/g/dev)
- Check out [kubernetes/community](https://github.com/kubernetes/community) for an overview of our community.
- Come join us in the [Kubernetes Slack](https://slack.k8s.io):
  - Join the #kubernetes-new-contributors channel
  - Join the channels of 1 or more SIGs you're interested in
- Participate in the [New Contributor Orientation](./README.md) to get an introduction to Kubernetes development and the community.

## Getting Familiar with the Process

1. Follow the [Contributor Guide](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/) to get familiar with various contributor tools and processes.
2. Read [The First Contribution Guide](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/first-contribution/) for a walkthrough of your first Pull Request (PR) process.

## Additional Resources

- Explore the comprehensive Resources List at [https://bit.ly/kubernetes-resources](https://bit.ly/kubernetes-resources)
