---
kep-number: 14
title: Krew
authors:
  - "@lbb"
owning-sig: sig-cli
participating-sigs:
  - sig-cli
reviewers:
  - TBD
  - "@pwittroc"
approvers:
  - "@pwittroc"
editor: lbb
creation-date: 2018-07-03
last-updated: yyyy-mm-dd
status: provisional
see-also:
  - n/a
replaces:
  - n/a
superseded-by:
  - n/a
---

# Krew

## Table of Contents
* [Krew](#krew)
  * [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  * [Summary](#summary)
  * [Motivation](#motivation)
    * [Discoverability](#discoverability)
    * [Cross-platform Packaging](#cross-platform-packaging)
    * [Lifecycle management](#lifecycle-management)
    * [Goals](#goals)
    * [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
  * [Proposal](#proposal)
      * [Capabilities](#capabilities)
    * [Scenarios (standalone only)](#scenarios-standalone-only)
    * [Scenarios](#scenarios)
    * [UX and CLI Flow](#ux-and-cli-flow)
    * [Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints](#implementation-detailsnotesconstraints-optional)
    * [Risks](#risks)
  * [Graduation Criteria](#graduation-criteria)
  * [Implementation History](#implementation-history)
  * [Drawbacks](#drawbacks)

## Summary

krew is a package manager for the kubectl plugin system. krew introduces a way
to handle kubectl plugin management and discovery.

## Motivation

The kubectl plugin system allows users to extend kubectl by placing extension
executables in a plugin directory. This allows new subcommands and subcommand
trees to be added in the kubectl CLI interface under `kubectl plugin <NAME>`.
This has the following user friction:

* Users need to manually download and manage plugins to ~/.kube/plugins and
  keep them up to date
* Users need to be aware of the installation requirements and instructions of
  each plugin

Currently, there are no unified distribution methods for kubectl plugins.
This has several disadvantages:

### Discoverability

Available kubectl plugins are not easily discoverable and searchable.

### Cross-platform Packaging

Plugins need to be packaged separately different OS and distros.
Often, plugin maintainers do not do this.

### Lifecycle management 

Often installation is done through manually downloading a zip and placing
it under ~/.kube/plugins. This is an unpleasant experience to the user
especially when it comes to updating the plugins,
or when a user deletes ~/.kube.

---

Those disadvantages will lead to slow the adoption rate of kubectl plugins.
krew will be a plugin manager able to solve all of the named issues. 

### Goals


* Install, uninstall and update plugins
* Discovery of plugins
* Giving developers a platform to contribute their plugins to
* Build repository platform for contributors (i.e brew formulas approach)
* Allow multiple plugin index sources
* (only for standalone) Self hosting: krew installation doesn't require a
  package manager: it can upgrade itself 

### Non-Goals

* Dependency management of libraries
* Plugins are user facing programs, they should not depend on each other.
  They have environment requirements like curl or git.
  Krew is not responsible to cover external dependency,
  program and environment setup like apt,
  brew or dnf. The user will be informed to take action.
* Complete integration with various download sources like “hg://” or “samba://”
* kubectl version compatibility management


## Proposal

#### Capabilities

Note: This proposal has already been implemented in
`github.com/GoogleContainerTools/krew` as a proof of concept.
The goal is to move it into kubectl.

Define a new meta config format called plugin manifest
(stored in the index under: <plugin-name>.yaml)


### Scenarios (standalone only)

* User wants to install krew. They can run one `curl` command to install the
  plugin manager, the plugin manager should then be able to function properly.

### Scenarios

* User wants to install and update a plugin.
  They use the search to discover plugins `kubectl plugin search foo`.
  Every plugin displays a short description of its purpose.
  They find the right plugin and install it with the install command.
  Using the update command them can update all installed plugins to it
  latest version. 
* User moves to a new machine and wants to reinstall all their plugins.
  They can copy the declarative plugin list. This file contains all plugins that
  were requested by the user to be installed. They have to copy it to the new
  installation and run an update. There will be a command for exporting and
  importing depots.
* Developer wants to make his plugin discoverable by others.
  They provide a link to the whole plugin as a compressed file under a public
  URL. (Github provides any commit/tag as .tar.gz automatically.)
  Afterwards the developer creates a PR against the index repository with a new
  meta description file. This file contains the download url, download hash,
  plugin version and description and tags. Meta descriptions are used by the
  plugin manager to discover and manage plugins.
* Developer wants to update their plugin and make those changes public.
  They create a new PR against the index repository updating their plugin meta
  description file. 

### UX and CLI Flow 

```text
# Update and fetch plugin index.
$ kubectl plugin update

# Search for plugins
$ kubectl plugin search servicecat
service-catalog     Consume services in Kubernetes using the Open S... available
service-cat-viewer  Show ASCII cat picture for every Service format... installed  
service-catalog-gke A helper utility for discovering GKE services l... available

$ kubectl plugin info service-cat-viewer
DESCRIPTION: Show ASCII cat picture for every Service formatet ISO-11801
URL: https://github.com/oscar-kitty/viewer.git

CAVEATS:
This plugin needs the following programs:
* fzf
* jq

For a better user experience:
  export $TERM=vt220

# Install the plugin.
$ kubectl plugin install service-cat-viewer
Installation (1/1): service-cat-viewer
Downloading https://github.com/oscar-kitty/viewer.git
Progress: 100%
Done!

Plugin Caveats:
  This plugin needs the following programs:
  * fzf
  * jq

  For a better user experience:
    export $TERM=vt220

# Update all plugins and index
$ kubectl plugin upgrade

# Update specific plugins
$ kubectl plugin upgrade foo bar

# uninstall plugin
$ kubectl plugin remove aws-cat-viewer

# Store the list of installed plugins
$ kubectl plugin list > deposit.txt

# On a new machine load the plugin list
$ kubectl plugin install < deposit.txt
... [Plugin installation output] ...
```

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

krew has already been implemented in the `github.com/GoogleContainerTools/krew`
repo, and should be moved to a separate repo for the sub project.
krew was initially developed as its own cli, however once it has matured,
it should be published as a subcommand of kubectl or as a statically linked
plugin. It should also be more tightly integrated with apply.

### Risks
The index repository needs some form of governance to prevent malicious plugins. 

## Graduation Criteria
* Dogfood krew by either:
  * moving one or more of the cncf clis to it (i.e helm)
  * getting user feedback from one or more mid or large application deployments
    using krew.
* Publish krew as a subcommand of kubectl.


## Implementation History
krew was implemented in the `github.com/GoogleContainerTools/krew` repo before
subprojects became a first class thing in Kubernetes. The code has been fully
implemented, but it must be moved to a proper location.

## Drawbacks

Implementing krew and growing the ecosystem can hold back the git-style plugin
approach.
