<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# Resource Management Working Group

Designing and shepherding cross-cutting features around compute resource isolation and utilization.

## Stakeholder SIGs
* SIG Autoscaling
* SIG Instrumentation
* SIG Network
* SIG Node
* SIG Scheduling
* SIG Storage

## Meetings
* Regular WG Meeting: [Wednesdays at 11:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FQx0BPlkkl1Bn0c9ocVBxYIKojpmrS1CFP5h0DI68AE/edit) (biweekly (On demand)). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=11:00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j3vrG6BgE0hUDs2e-1ZUegKN4W4Adb1B6oJ6j-4kyPU).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FUUJeWIEej0&list=PL69nYSiGNLP2uTrVwZCFtdEvLQvsbG2w4).

## Organizers

* Derek Carr (**[@derekwaynecarr](https://github.com/derekwaynecarr)**), Red Hat
* Vishnu Kannan (**[@vishh](https://github.com/vishh)**), Google

## Contact
- Slack: [#wg-resource-mgmt](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/wg-resource-mgmt)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-wg-resource-management)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/wg%2Fresource-management)
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->
A working group that is a cross-SIG effort currently sponsored by sig-node and sig-scheduling with
a focus on improving Kubernetes Compute Resource Management.

Features tackled in this workgroup typically span more than one of the following SIGs:
* SIG-Node
* SIG-Scheduling
* SIG-Autoscaling
* SIG-Instrumentation
* SIG-Storage
* SIG-Networking

Many advanced resource management topics span these functional areas, and this working
group is intended to support collaboration. Prior to pursuing major changes in compute resource
management, it is encouraged that community members share their ideas in this working group
to reach broad consensus across the SIGs. Once consensus is reached, the enhancements
are then managed by the appropriate SIGs based on impacted areas of code.

It is an open and active working group, and we always welcome new additions!

## Goals:

Topics include, but are not limited to:

* Support for Performance sensitive workloads (exclusive cores, cpu pinning strategies, numa)
* Integrating new hardware devices (gpus, fpga, infiniband, etc.)
* Improving resource isolation (local storage, hugepages, caches, etc.)
* Improving Quality of Service (Performance SLOs)
* Performance benchmarking
* APIs and extensions related to the features mentioned above 
* ...
<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->
