sig-cloud-provider/annual-report-2025.md, before:

# 2025 Annual Report: SIG Cloud Provider

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - Major KEP advancement
   - Important initiatives that aren't tracked via KEPs
   - Paying down significant tech debt
   - Governance and leadership changes
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?


3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2025 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?

<!--
  Examples include links to email, slides, or recordings.
-->

4. KEP work in 2025 (v1.33, v1.34, v1.35):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

<!-- 
  - Alpha
    - [5237 - Watch-based route controller reconciliation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-cloud-provider/5237-watch-based-route-controller-reconciliation) - v1.35

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cloud-provider#subprojects)


**New in 2025:**
  - kro
**Continuing:**
  - cloud-provider-extraction-migration
  - kubernetes-cloud-provider
  - provider-alibaba-cloud
  - provider-aws
  - provider-azure
  - provider-equinix-metal
  - provider-gcp
  - provider-huaweicloud
  - provider-ibmcloud
  - provider-oci
  - provider-openstack
  - provider-vsphere

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cloud-provider#working-groups)

**New in 2025:**
 - Node Lifecycle
**Continuing:**
 - Structured Logging

## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cloud-provider/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cloud-provider/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md

Commit message:

add sig cloud provider 2025 report

sig-cloud-provider/annual-report-2025.md, after:

# 2025 Annual Report: SIG Cloud Provider

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?

* [KEP-5237 watch-based route conntroller reconciliation using informers](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5237)
* [Kubernetes Resource Orchestrator (KRO)](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kro/) was accepted by the SIG as an official subproject.
* [Announcing the deprecation of Cloud Provider Equinix Metal](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cloud-provider-equinix-metal/issues/636) as the service is being retired.

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - Major KEP advancement
   - Important initiatives that aren't tracked via KEPs
   - Paying down significant tech debt
   - Governance and leadership changes
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?


3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2025 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?

* [SIG Cloud Provider Deep Dive: Testing Cloud Controller Managers (KubeCon EU 2025)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WeWQqQM6kjM)
* [SIG Cloud Provider Deep Dive: Expanding Our Mission (KubeCon NA 2025)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BcUWVmluRdw)

<!--
  Examples include links to email, slides, or recordings.
-->

4. KEP work in 2025 (v1.33, v1.34, v1.35):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

  - Alpha
    - [5237 - Watch-based route controller reconciliation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-cloud-provider/5237-watch-based-route-controller-reconciliation) - v1.35


## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cloud-provider#subprojects)


**New in 2025:**
  - kro

**Continuing:**
  - cloud-provider-extraction-migration
  - kubernetes-cloud-provider
  - provider-alibaba-cloud
  - provider-aws
  - provider-azure
  - provider-equinix-metal
  - provider-gcp
  - provider-huaweicloud
  - provider-ibmcloud
  - provider-oci
  - provider-openstack
  - provider-vsphere

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cloud-provider#working-groups)

**New in 2025:**
 - Node Lifecycle

**Continuing:**
 - Structured Logging

## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [x] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [x] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cloud-provider/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-cloud-provider/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md
