wg-device-management/annual-report-2024.md, before:

# 2024 Annual Report: WG Device Management

## Current initiatives and Project Health


1. What work did the WG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - artifacts
   - reports
   - white papers
   - work not tracked in KEPs
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?

## Operational

Operational tasks in [wg-governance.md]:

- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] WG leaders in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2024 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed
- [ ] Updates provided to sponsoring SIGs in 2024
      - [$sig-name](https://git.k8s.io/community/$sig-id/)
        - links to email, meeting notes, slides, or recordings, etc
      - [$sig-name](https://git.k8s.io/community/$sig-id/)
        - links to email, meeting notes, slides, or recordings, etc
      -

[wg-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/wg-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/wg-device-management/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml

Commit message:

wg-device-management: annual report 2024
Also includes an update of the WG meta data, covering the recent creation of a
Asia-friendly Zoom meeting.

wg-device-management/annual-report-2024.md, after:

# 2024 Annual Report: WG Device Management

## Current initiatives and Project Health


1. What work did the WG do this year that should be highlighted?

The WG ramped up well after its creation, with well-attended Zoom meetings and
all-hands meetings and talks at KubeCon. The [core of Dynamic Resource
Allocation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4381) got
promoted to beta in Kubernetes 1.32.

Several new contributors have ramped up and help address open issues. [KEP
#4817](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4817) is the first
DRA feature which got defined and implemented by such a new contributor.

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with
   (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?

More help with the
[example-driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/dra-example-driver) would
be welcome.

## Operational

Operational tasks in [wg-governance.md]:

- [X] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [X] WG leaders in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [X] Meeting notes and recordings for 2024 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed
- [X] Updates provided to sponsoring SIGs in 2024
      - KubeCon NA 2024 maintainer track talk:
        ["Kubernetes WG Device Management - Advancing K8s Support for GPUs"](https://kccncna2024.sched.com/event/1hovp/kubernetes-wg-device-management-advancing-k8s-support-for-gpus-john-belamaric-google-patrick-ohly-intel-kevin-klues-nvidia)

[wg-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/wg-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/wg-device-management/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
