sig-ui/annual-report-2025.md, before:

# 2025 Annual Report: SIG UI

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - Major KEP advancement
   - Important initiatives that aren't tracked via KEPs
   - Paying down significant tech debt
   - Governance and leadership changes
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?


3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2025 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?

<!--
  Examples include links to email, slides, or recordings.
-->

4. KEP work in 2025 (v1.33, v1.34, v1.35):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

<!-- 

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-ui#subprojects)


**New in 2025:**
  - headlamp
**Continuing:**
  - dashboard

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-ui#working-groups)


## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-ui/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-ui/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md

Commit message:

sig-ui: Update annual report for 2025
Co-authored-by: Shu Muto <shu.mutow@nec.com>
Signed-off-by: Joaquim Rocha <joaquim@amutable.com>

sig-ui/annual-report-2025.md, after:

# 2025 Annual Report: SIG UI

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?

* Moved the Headlamp project under the SIG UI.
* Kubernetes Dashboard was in maintenance mode, having had only dependency
  update PRs merged.
* joaquimrocha joined as a SIG UI lead.
* After joining the SIG UI (April 2025), Headlamp had 10 blog posts, 10
  releases, and 9 community calls.

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?

  In later December the SIG UI leaders decided to discontinue Kubernetes Dashboard,
  resulting in the archiving of the project in early 2026.

3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2025 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?

* Headlamp participated in the LFX Mentorhip with 7 projects, had 9 community
  calls.
* Headlamp participated actively in KubeCon Europe (London) with a talk, a
  Contribfest session, and a part-time kiosk. And participted in KubeCon NA
  (Atlanta) with a Contribfest session, a talk, and a full-time kiosk. There
  were other talks given about Headlamp in the Microsoft booth, and one talk at
  FluxCon.

4. KEP work in 2025 (v1.33, v1.34, v1.35):

[KEP-5008: Update KEP to be about moving headlamp](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/5181)

<!--

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-ui#subprojects)


**New in 2025:**
  - headlamp

**Archived (in early 2026):**
  - dashboard

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-ui#working-groups)


## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-ui/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-ui/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md
