sig-docs/annual-report-2024.md, before:

# 2024 Annual Report: SIG Docs

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - Major KEP advancement
   - Important initiatives that aren't tracked via KEPs
   - Paying down significant tech debt
   - Governance and leadership changes
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?


3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2024 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?

<!--
  Examples include links to email, slides, or recordings.
-->

4. KEP work in 2024 (v1.30, v1.31, v1.32):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

<!-- 

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#subprojects)


**Continuing:**
  - kubernetes-blog
  - localization
  - reference-docs
  - website

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#working-groups)


## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2024 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md

Commit message:

update sig docs annual report

sig-docs/annual-report-2024.md, after:

# 2024 Annual Report: SIG Docs

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?

Karen Bradshaw, Tim Bannister, and Taylor Dolezal stepped down at SIG Docs Tech Leads. Kat Cosgrove and Xander Grzywinski are now Tech Leads.

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?



3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2024 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?

<!--
  Examples include links to email, slides, or recordings.
-->

4. KEP work in 2024 (v1.30, v1.31, v1.32):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

<!-- 

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#subprojects)


**Continuing:**
  - kubernetes-blog
  - localization
  - reference-docs
  - website

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#working-groups)


## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [x] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [x] Meeting notes and recordings for 2024 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md
