sig-docs/annual-report-2025.md, before:

# 2025 Annual Report: SIG Docs

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?

<!--
   Some example items that might be worth highlighting:
   - Major KEP advancement
   - Important initiatives that aren't tracked via KEPs
   - Paying down significant tech debt
   - Governance and leadership changes
-->

2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?


3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2025 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?

<!--
  Examples include links to email, slides, or recordings.
-->

4. KEP work in 2025 (v1.33, v1.34, v1.35):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

<!-- 

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#subprojects)


**Continuing:**
  - kubernetes-blog
  - localization
  - reference-docs
  - website

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#working-groups)


## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [ ] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [ ] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [ ] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md

Commit message:

update SIG Docs 2025 annual report
Signed-off-by: Rey Lejano <rlejano@gmail.com>

sig-docs/annual-report-2025.md, after:

# 2025 Annual Report: SIG Docs

## Current initiatives and Project Health

1. What work did the SIG do this year that should be highlighted?
* SIG Docs conducted an LFX Mentorship to update the API reference generator https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/reference-docs
* SIG Docs is in the process of upgrading Docsy theme for kubernetes.io to better align with upstream Docsy
* SIG Docs has continued to build its maintainer and leadership bench by onboarding new TLs and approvers
  * Dipesh Rawat and Rey Lejano appointed as Tech Leads
* Work has started on the Farsi localization of Kubernetes documentation


2. Are there any areas and/or subprojects that your group needs help with (e.g. fewer than 2 active OWNERS)?
* Reference-docs subproject needs additional contributors and reviewers

3. Did you have community-wide updates in 2025 (e.g. KubeCon talks)?
* KubeCON EU 2025 Bridging the Gap to OSS Adoption with Documentation: A Kubernetes Story https://kccnceu2025.sched.com/event/1td1Z/bridge-the-gap-to-oss-adoption-with-documentation-a-kubernetes-story-natali-vlatko-cisco-divya-mohan-suse
* KubeCon EU 2025 SIG Docs And You: Modernizing API Reference Generation https://kccnceu2025.sched.com/event/1td0V/sig-docs-and-you-modernizing-api-reference-generation-kat-cosgrove-xander-grzywinski-independent
* KubeCon NA 2025 Getting Up to Date with Docsy: The Kubernetes Docs Upgrade Process https://kccncna2025.sched.com/event/27NnW/getting-up-to-date-with-docsy-the-kubernetes-docs-upgrade-in-progress-natali-vlatko-cisco-rey-lejano-red-hat-divya-mohan-suse-sayak-mukhopadhyay-gemini-solutions


4. KEP work in 2025 (v1.33, v1.34, v1.35):
<!--
   TODO: Uncomment the following auto-generated list of KEPs, once reviewed & updated for correction.

   Note: This list is generated from the KEP metadata in kubernetes/enhancements repository.
      If you find any discrepancy in the generated list here, please check the KEP metadata.
      Please raise an issue in kubernetes/community, if the KEP metadata is correct but the generated list is incorrect.
-->

<!-- 

 -->

## [Subprojects](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#subprojects)


**Continuing:**
  - kubernetes-blog
  - localization
  - reference-docs
  - website

## [Working groups](https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs#working-groups)


## Operational

Operational tasks in [sig-governance.md]:
- [x] [README.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] [CONTRIBUTING.md] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] Other contributing docs (e.g. in devel dir or contributor guide) reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] Subprojects list and linked OWNERS files in [sigs.yaml] reviewed for accuracy and updated if needed
- [x] SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject leads) in [sigs.yaml] are accurate and active, and updated if needed
- [x] Meeting notes and recordings for 2025 are linked from [README.md] and updated/uploaded if needed


[CONTRIBUTING.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs/CONTRIBUTING.md
[sig-governance.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/committee-steering/governance/sig-governance.md
[README.md]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sig-docs/README.md
[sigs.yaml]: https://git.k8s.io/community/sigs.yaml
[devel]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/README.md
