sig-node/sig-node-kep-wrangler-program.md, before:

# SIG Node KEP Wrangler Program

SIG Node is frequently the front-runner on completed KEP numbers in a given release. While we’ve historically been very productive, working on so many KEPs means things frequently fall between the cracks. In the retrospective for Kubernetes release v1.31.0 and subsequent conversations, the SIG discussed adding additional volunteers in the KEP wrangling process. This document describes this process and serves as a guide for new KEP wranglers to understand their responsibilities.

## Responsibilities

- Help guide contributors through the KEP process, ensuring they hit the various different deadlines (listed below)
- Help communicate blockers/high priority issues (if any) to the SIG leads and chairs to help move them forward
- Ensure someone responsible for the KEP is responding to the release and docs teams

## Important deadlines 

As a KEP wrangler you should make sure that the KEPs assigned to you are abiding the following deadlines, as set by the release team:
- PRR Freeze
- Enhancements Freeze
- Code/Test Freeze
- Docs Freeze

## Signing up to be a wrangler

If you're interested in becoming a wrangler and helping us out, wait for the wrangler signup form in the [SIG Node mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-sig-node) during the initial weeks of a release cycle.

## Resources

Wranglers should be part of the following channels in the Kubernetes Slack workspace:

- [#sig-node-wranglers](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C092ZDBRU64)
- [#sig-node](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0BP8PW9G)

## Process

- At the start of the release, the SIG chairs would create a KEP planning board (You can find the v1.34 one [here](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/214/views/2) for example)
- Once the board is created and KEPs are added, feel free to assign KEPs to yourself by adding your name in the `Wranglers` column
- Once you've assigned KEPs to yourself, follow up on the status of the KEPs and ping the KEP authors as and when necessary to make sure that all the different deadlines are met

## Wrangler Lead

In order to facilitate the wrangling process, we have a SIG Node KEP Wrangler lead. The person serving as the lead is responsible for making sure that KEPs are wrangled and that the reporting is done properly in that cycle.

The responsibilities of the KEP wrangler lead includes the following:
- Post the status of the KEPs each week in the [#sig-node-wranglers](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C092ZDBRU64) channel
- Help new wranglers get familiar with the process and assist whenever needed
- Send reminders before important deadlines like the enhancements and code freeze
- Step in or delegate work if a wrangler assigned to a KEP is unavailable before important deadlines

The SIG Node chairs selects a wrangler lead for each cycle. If you've been a KEP wrangler previously and would like to lead the wranglers, reach out to the SIG Node chairs in the [#sig-node-wranglers](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C092ZDBRU64) channel.

## Reporting

In order to assess the status of KEPs throughout the release, we plan to post a report of the KEPs every week in the [#sig-node-wranglers](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C092ZDBRU64) channel. This can be done on Tuesdays before the weekly SIG Node meetings.

Use the following templates to post the metrics of KEPs:

#### Before enhancements freeze

```md
Metrics:

By Stage
- Alpha:
- Beta:
- Stable:
- Deprecation:

By Status
- Tracked for enhancemnets freeze: 
- At risk for enhancements freeze:
- Removed from milestone: 
```

#### Before code freeze 

```md
Metrics:

By Stage
- Alpha:
- Beta:
- Stable:
- Deprecation:

By Status
- Tracked for code freeze: 
- At risk for code freeze:
- Removed from milestone: 
```

#### Before docs freeze

```md
Metrics:

By Stage
- Alpha:
- Beta:
- Stable:
- Deprecation:

By Status
- Tracked for docs freeze: 
- At risk for docs freeze:
- Removed from milestone: 
```

Commit message:

Added note on collecting wrangler applications

sig-node/sig-node-kep-wrangler-program.md, after:

# SIG Node KEP Wrangler Program

SIG Node is frequently the front-runner on completed KEP numbers in a given release. While we’ve historically been very productive, working on so many KEPs means things frequently fall between the cracks. In the retrospective for Kubernetes release v1.31.0 and subsequent conversations, the SIG discussed adding additional volunteers in the KEP wrangling process. This document describes this process and serves as a guide for new KEP wranglers to understand their responsibilities.

## Responsibilities

- Help guide contributors through the KEP process, ensuring they hit the various different deadlines (listed below)
- Help communicate blockers/high priority issues (if any) to the SIG leads and chairs to help move them forward
- Ensure someone responsible for the KEP is responding to the release and docs teams

## Important deadlines 

As a KEP wrangler you should make sure that the KEPs assigned to you are abiding the following deadlines, as set by the release team:
- PRR Freeze
- Enhancements Freeze
- Code/Test Freeze
- Docs Freeze

## Signing up to be a wrangler

If you're interested in becoming a wrangler and helping us out, wait for the wrangler signup form in the [SIG Node mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-sig-node) during the initial weeks of a release cycle.

## Resources

Wranglers should be part of the following channels in the Kubernetes Slack workspace:

- [#sig-node-wranglers](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C092ZDBRU64)
- [#sig-node](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0BP8PW9G)

## Process

- At the start of the release, the SIG chairs would create a KEP planning board (You can find the v1.34 one [here](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/214/views/2) for example)
- Once the board is created and KEPs are added, feel free to assign KEPs to yourself by adding your name in the `Wranglers` column
- Once you've assigned KEPs to yourself, follow up on the status of the KEPs and ping the KEP authors as and when necessary to make sure that all the different deadlines are met

## Wrangler Lead

In order to facilitate the wrangling process, we have a SIG Node KEP Wrangler lead. The person serving as the lead is responsible for making sure that KEPs are wrangled and that the reporting is done properly in that cycle.

The responsibilities of the KEP wrangler lead includes the following:
- Post the status of the KEPs each week in the [#sig-node-wranglers](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C092ZDBRU64) channel
- Collect applications for wranglers at the start of the release cycle by creating an interest form
- Help new wranglers get familiar with the process and assist whenever needed
- Send reminders before important deadlines like the enhancements and code freeze
- Step in or delegate work if a wrangler assigned to a KEP is unavailable before important deadlines

The SIG Node chairs selects a wrangler lead for each cycle. If you've been a KEP wrangler previously and would like to lead the wranglers, reach out to the SIG Node chairs in the [#sig-node-wranglers](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C092ZDBRU64) channel.

## Reporting

In order to assess the status of KEPs throughout the release, we plan to post a report of the KEPs every week in the [#sig-node-wranglers](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C092ZDBRU64) channel. This can be done on Tuesdays before the weekly SIG Node meetings.

Use the following templates to post the metrics of KEPs:

#### Before enhancements freeze

```md
Metrics:

By Stage
- Alpha:
- Beta:
- Stable:
- Deprecation:

By Status
- Tracked for enhancemnets freeze: 
- At risk for enhancements freeze:
- Removed from milestone: 
```

#### Before code freeze 

```md
Metrics:

By Stage
- Alpha:
- Beta:
- Stable:
- Deprecation:

By Status
- Tracked for code freeze: 
- At risk for code freeze:
- Removed from milestone: 
```

#### Before docs freeze

```md
Metrics:

By Stage
- Alpha:
- Beta:
- Stable:
- Deprecation:

By Status
- Tracked for docs freeze: 
- At risk for docs freeze:
- Removed from milestone: 
```
