sig-architecture/README.md, before:

<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# Architecture Special Interest Group

The Architecture SIG maintains and evolves the design principles of Kubernetes, and provides a consistent body of expertise necessary to ensure architectural consistency over time.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the Architecture Special Interest Group.

## Meetings
*Joining the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-architecture) for the group will typically add invites for the following meetings to your calendar.*
* Enhancements Subproject Meeting: [Thursdays at 10:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/95357819945) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=10%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://bit.ly/k8s-enhancements-agenda).
  * [Meeting recordings](TBD).
* Production Readiness Office Hours: [Wednesdays at 12:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/482444151) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=12%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10QkXwiZfBL7wBKHHFslooXvGDKHA75jkkgiIXuKFryM/edit?usp=sharing).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP2m6198LaLN6YahX7EEac5g).
* Regular SIG Meeting: [Thursdays at 11:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/845605479) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=11%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BlmHq5uPyBUDlppYqAAzslVbAO8hilgjqZUTaNXUhKM/edit).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP2m6198LaLN6YahX7EEac5g).
* code organization Office Hours: [Thursdays at 14:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/159990793) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=14%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HtTI0rJEGP_MSf6eO87aCmx_tzpovPAAg7U2Zxwm8FE/edit#).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP03VEluzh0wpSRPzgve8kI5).
* conformance office Hours: [Wednesdays at 18:00 UTC](https://zoom.us/j/427337923) (First Wednesday of the month). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=18%3A00&tz=UTC).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W31nXh9RYAb_VaYkwuPLd1hFxuRX3iU0DmaQ4lkCsX8/edit#).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP2m6198LaLN6YahX7EEac5g).

## Leadership

### Chairs
The Chairs of the SIG run operations and processes governing the SIG.

* Derek Carr (**[@derekwaynecarr](https://github.com/derekwaynecarr)**), Red Hat
* Davanum Srinivas (**[@dims](https://github.com/dims)**), Amazon
* John Belamaric (**[@johnbelamaric](https://github.com/johnbelamaric)**), Google

## Contact
- Slack: [#sig-architecture](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-architecture)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-architecture)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/sig%2Farchitecture)
- GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-api-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-api-reviews) - API Changes and Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-bugs](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-bugs) - Bug Triage and Troubleshooting
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-feature-requests](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-feature-requests) - Feature Requests
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-misc-use-only-as-a-last-resort](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-misc-use-only-as-a-last-resort) - General Discussion
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-pr-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-pr-reviews) - PR Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-proposals](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-proposals) - Design Proposals
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-test-failures](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-test-failures) - Test Failures and Triage
- Steering Committee Liaison: Benjamin Elder (**[@BenTheElder](https://github.com/BenTheElder)**)

## Working Groups

The following [working groups][working-group-definition] are sponsored by sig-architecture:
* [WG Device Management](/wg-device-management)
* [WG LTS](/wg-lts)
* [WG Policy](/wg-policy)
* [WG Serving](/wg-serving)
* [WG Structured Logging](/wg-structured-logging)


## Subprojects

The following [subprojects][subproject-definition] are owned by sig-architecture:
### apisnoop
Snooping on the Kubernetes OpenAPI communications
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/apisnoop](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/apisnoop/blob/main/OWNERS)
### architecture-and-api-governance
[Described below](#architecture-and-api-governance-1)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes/api](https://github.com/kubernetes/api/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/design-proposals-archive](https://github.com/kubernetes/design-proposals-archive/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/api](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/api/OWNERS)
### code-organization
[Described below](#code-organization-1)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/depstat](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/depstat/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/component-helpers](https://github.com/kubernetes/component-helpers/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/component-base](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/component-base/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/component-helpers](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/component-helpers/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/third_party](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/third_party/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/vendor](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/vendor/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/utils](https://github.com/kubernetes/utils/blob/master/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#k8s-code-organization](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/k8s-code-organization)
### conformance-definition
[Described below](#conformance-definition-1)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/verify-conformance](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/verify-conformance/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/test/conformance](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/test/conformance/image](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/image/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/test/conformance/testdata](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/testdata/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#k8s-conformance](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/k8s-conformance)
  - GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubernetes/cncf-conformance-wg](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/cncf-conformance-wg)
### enhancements
[Described below](#enhancement-proposals)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes/enhancements](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#enhancements](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/enhancements)
### production-readiness
[Described below](#production-readiness-1)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes/community/sig-architecture](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#prod-readiness](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/prod-readiness)
### wg-device-management
Contains prototype code for future work driven by WG Device Management
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/wg-device-management](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-device-management/blob/main/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#wg-device-management](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/wg-device-management)
### wg-serving
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/wg-serving](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-serving/blob/main/OWNERS)

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

# Details about SIG-Architecture sub-projects

## Architecture and API Governance

Establishing and documenting design principles, documenting and evolving the system architecture, reviewing, curating, and documenting new extension patterns

Establishing and documenting conventions for system and user-facing APIs, define and operate the APl review process, final API implementation consistency validation, co-own top-level API directories with API machinery; maintaining, evolving, and enforcing the deprecation policy

* [Kubernetes Design and Architecture](https://git.k8s.io/design-proposals-archive/architecture/architecture.md)
* [Design principles](https://git.k8s.io/design-proposals-archive/architecture/principles.md)
* [API conventions](/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md)
* [API Review process](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md)
* [Deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/deprecation-policy/)

Please see the [API Reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/169) tracking board to follow the work of this sub-project. Please reach out to folks in the [OWNERS](https://git.k8s.io/design-proposals-archive/architecture/OWNERS) file if you are interested in joining this effort.

## Enhancement Proposals

Kubernetes Enhancement proposals (KEPs) are used to propose and communicate changes to sub-projects of SIG-Architecture. Following the KEP process is mandatory for all enhancements since Kubernetes 1.14 release.

* Answers to our FAQs can be found here [FAQs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps#faqs)
* Full details of the KEP process can be found in [KEP-1](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-architecture/0000-kep-process/README.md)
* Please follow the KEP template available at [KEP Template](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/NNNN-kep-template/README.md) for the enhancement proposal.
* Progress of KEPs can be tracked on our github project board at [Kubernetes Enhancements](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/projects/4)
* Please review [OWNERS](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/commit/ed46d6956b616e46cd62ac9a3d98449a0a313c89) to connect with enhancement chairs, approvers, and reviewers

## Conformance Definition

Reviewing, approving, and driving changes to the conformance test suite; reviewing, guiding, and creating new conformance profiles

* [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/testdata/conformance.yaml)
* [Test Guidelines](/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md)

Please see the [Conformance Test Review](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/architecture-tracking/projects/1) tracking board to follow the work for this sub-project. Please reach out to folks in the [OWNERS](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/testdata/OWNERS) file if you are interested in joining this effort. There is a lot of overlap with the [Kubernetes Software Conformance Working Group](https://github.com/cncf/k8s-conformance/blob/master/README-WG.md) with this sub project as well. The github group [cncf-conformance-wg](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/cncf-conformance-wg) enumerates the folks on this working group. Look for the `area/conformance` label in the kubernetes repositories to mark [issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fconformance) and [PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fconformance).

## Code Organization

Overall code organization, including github repositories and branching methodology, top-level and pkg OWNERS of kubernetes/kubernetes, vendoring

Please see the [Code Organization](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/27) tracking board to follow the work of this sub-project. Please reach out to folks in the [OWNERS](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/vendor/OWNERS) file if you are interested in joining this effort. Look for the `area/code-organization` label in the kubernetes repositories to mark [issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fcode-organization) and [PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fcode-organization). We also use `area/dependency` label as well [issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fdependency) and [PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fdependency).

## Production Readiness

Defining and documenting the processes for ensuring production readiness of new and
promoted features, as well as producing tooling to enforce those processes.

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->

Commit message:

Add maintainer-tools subproject
Signed-off-by: Bob Killen <bkillen@linuxfoundation.org>

sig-architecture/README.md, after:

<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://git.k8s.io/community/generator/README.md
--->
# Architecture Special Interest Group

The Architecture SIG maintains and evolves the design principles of Kubernetes, and provides a consistent body of expertise necessary to ensure architectural consistency over time.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the Architecture Special Interest Group.

## Meetings
*Joining the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-architecture) for the group will typically add invites for the following meetings to your calendar.*
* Enhancements Subproject Meeting: [Thursdays at 10:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/95357819945) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=10%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://bit.ly/k8s-enhancements-agenda).
  * [Meeting recordings](TBD).
* Production Readiness Office Hours: [Wednesdays at 12:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/482444151) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=12%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10QkXwiZfBL7wBKHHFslooXvGDKHA75jkkgiIXuKFryM/edit?usp=sharing).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP2m6198LaLN6YahX7EEac5g).
* Regular SIG Meeting: [Thursdays at 11:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/845605479) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=11%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BlmHq5uPyBUDlppYqAAzslVbAO8hilgjqZUTaNXUhKM/edit).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP2m6198LaLN6YahX7EEac5g).
* code organization Office Hours: [Thursdays at 14:00 PT (Pacific Time)](https://zoom.us/j/159990793) (biweekly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=14%3A00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HtTI0rJEGP_MSf6eO87aCmx_tzpovPAAg7U2Zxwm8FE/edit#).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP03VEluzh0wpSRPzgve8kI5).
* conformance office Hours: [Wednesdays at 18:00 UTC](https://zoom.us/j/427337923) (First Wednesday of the month). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=18%3A00&tz=UTC).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W31nXh9RYAb_VaYkwuPLd1hFxuRX3iU0DmaQ4lkCsX8/edit#).
  * [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP2m6198LaLN6YahX7EEac5g).

## Leadership

### Chairs
The Chairs of the SIG run operations and processes governing the SIG.

* Derek Carr (**[@derekwaynecarr](https://github.com/derekwaynecarr)**), Red Hat
* Davanum Srinivas (**[@dims](https://github.com/dims)**), Amazon
* John Belamaric (**[@johnbelamaric](https://github.com/johnbelamaric)**), Google

## Contact
- Slack: [#sig-architecture](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-architecture)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-architecture)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/labels/sig%2Farchitecture)
- GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-api-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-api-reviews) - API Changes and Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-bugs](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-bugs) - Bug Triage and Troubleshooting
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-feature-requests](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-feature-requests) - Feature Requests
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-misc-use-only-as-a-last-resort](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-misc-use-only-as-a-last-resort) - General Discussion
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-pr-reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-pr-reviews) - PR Reviews
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-proposals](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-proposals) - Design Proposals
    - [@kubernetes/sig-architecture-test-failures](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/sig-architecture-test-failures) - Test Failures and Triage
- Steering Committee Liaison: Benjamin Elder (**[@BenTheElder](https://github.com/BenTheElder)**)

## Working Groups

The following [working groups][working-group-definition] are sponsored by sig-architecture:
* [WG Device Management](/wg-device-management)
* [WG LTS](/wg-lts)
* [WG Policy](/wg-policy)
* [WG Serving](/wg-serving)
* [WG Structured Logging](/wg-structured-logging)


## Subprojects

The following [subprojects][subproject-definition] are owned by sig-architecture:
### apisnoop
Snooping on the Kubernetes OpenAPI communications
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/apisnoop](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/apisnoop/blob/main/OWNERS)
### architecture-and-api-governance
[Described below](#architecture-and-api-governance-1)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes/api](https://github.com/kubernetes/api/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/design-proposals-archive](https://github.com/kubernetes/design-proposals-archive/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/api](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/api/OWNERS)
### code-organization
[Described below](#code-organization-1)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/depstat](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/depstat/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/component-helpers](https://github.com/kubernetes/component-helpers/blob/master/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/component-base](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/component-base/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/component-helpers](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/component-helpers/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/third_party](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/third_party/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/vendor](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/vendor/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/utils](https://github.com/kubernetes/utils/blob/master/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#k8s-code-organization](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/k8s-code-organization)
### conformance-definition
[Described below](#conformance-definition-1)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/verify-conformance](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/verify-conformance/blob/main/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/test/conformance](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/test/conformance/image](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/image/OWNERS)
  - [kubernetes/kubernetes/test/conformance/testdata](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/testdata/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#k8s-conformance](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/k8s-conformance)
  - GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubernetes/cncf-conformance-wg](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/cncf-conformance-wg)
### enhancements
[Described below](#enhancement-proposals)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes/enhancements](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#enhancements](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/enhancements)
### maintainer-tools
Tooling based on Deep Learning tools to help maintainers to maintain the Kubernetes project.
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/maintainer-tools/heads/main](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/maintainer-tools/blob/refs/heads/main/OWNERS)
### production-readiness
[Described below](#production-readiness-1)
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes/community/sig-architecture](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#prod-readiness](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/prod-readiness)
### wg-device-management
Contains prototype code for future work driven by WG Device Management
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/wg-device-management](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-device-management/blob/main/OWNERS)
- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#wg-device-management](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/wg-device-management)
### wg-serving
- **Owners:**
  - [kubernetes-sigs/wg-serving](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-serving/blob/main/OWNERS)

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

# Details about SIG-Architecture sub-projects

## Architecture and API Governance

Establishing and documenting design principles, documenting and evolving the system architecture, reviewing, curating, and documenting new extension patterns

Establishing and documenting conventions for system and user-facing APIs, define and operate the APl review process, final API implementation consistency validation, co-own top-level API directories with API machinery; maintaining, evolving, and enforcing the deprecation policy

* [Kubernetes Design and Architecture](https://git.k8s.io/design-proposals-archive/architecture/architecture.md)
* [Design principles](https://git.k8s.io/design-proposals-archive/architecture/principles.md)
* [API conventions](/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md)
* [API Review process](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md)
* [Deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/deprecation-policy/)

Please see the [API Reviews](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/169) tracking board to follow the work of this sub-project. Please reach out to folks in the [OWNERS](https://git.k8s.io/design-proposals-archive/architecture/OWNERS) file if you are interested in joining this effort.

## Enhancement Proposals

Kubernetes Enhancement proposals (KEPs) are used to propose and communicate changes to sub-projects of SIG-Architecture. Following the KEP process is mandatory for all enhancements since Kubernetes 1.14 release.

* Answers to our FAQs can be found here [FAQs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps#faqs)
* Full details of the KEP process can be found in [KEP-1](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-architecture/0000-kep-process/README.md)
* Please follow the KEP template available at [KEP Template](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/NNNN-kep-template/README.md) for the enhancement proposal.
* Progress of KEPs can be tracked on our github project board at [Kubernetes Enhancements](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/projects/4)
* Please review [OWNERS](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/commit/ed46d6956b616e46cd62ac9a3d98449a0a313c89) to connect with enhancement chairs, approvers, and reviewers

## Conformance Definition

Reviewing, approving, and driving changes to the conformance test suite; reviewing, guiding, and creating new conformance profiles

* [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/testdata/conformance.yaml)
* [Test Guidelines](/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md)

Please see the [Conformance Test Review](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/architecture-tracking/projects/1) tracking board to follow the work for this sub-project. Please reach out to folks in the [OWNERS](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/conformance/testdata/OWNERS) file if you are interested in joining this effort. There is a lot of overlap with the [Kubernetes Software Conformance Working Group](https://github.com/cncf/k8s-conformance/blob/master/README-WG.md) with this sub project as well. The github group [cncf-conformance-wg](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/teams/cncf-conformance-wg) enumerates the folks on this working group. Look for the `area/conformance` label in the kubernetes repositories to mark [issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fconformance) and [PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fconformance).

## Code Organization

Overall code organization, including github repositories and branching methodology, top-level and pkg OWNERS of kubernetes/kubernetes, vendoring

Please see the [Code Organization](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/27) tracking board to follow the work of this sub-project. Please reach out to folks in the [OWNERS](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/vendor/OWNERS) file if you are interested in joining this effort. Look for the `area/code-organization` label in the kubernetes repositories to mark [issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fcode-organization) and [PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fcode-organization). We also use `area/dependency` label as well [issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fdependency) and [PRs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fdependency).

## Production Readiness

Defining and documenting the processes for ensuring production readiness of new and
promoted features, as well as producing tooling to enforce those processes.

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->
